README.md, before:

# Magic Combat

This project provides a small combat simulator inspired by trading card games
such as *Magic: The Gathering*.

The ``magic_combat`` package now includes fully implemented modules such as
``CombatCreature`` and ``CombatSimulator`` which handle blocking validation,
damage assignment, keyword abilities and more.

## Repository layout

```
magic_combat/                Core package containing combat code
magic_combat/creature.py     ``CombatCreature`` data model
magic_combat/damage.py       Damage assignment strategies
magic_combat/simulator.py    ``CombatSimulator`` and ``CombatResult`` classes
magic_combat/utils.py        Small utility helpers used internally
magic_combat/parsing.py      Parsing helpers for card data
magic_combat/random_creature.py Utilities for sampling creatures
magic_combat/blocking_ai.py  Blocking heuristics and search
magic_combat/block_utils.py  Utilities for evaluating block assignments
```

## Development

1. Install the requirements

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. Run the test suite

```bash
pytest
```

The test suite exercises many combat interactions to ensure the rules are
implemented correctly.

## Usage

```python
from magic_combat import CombatCreature, CombatSimulator

attacker = CombatCreature("Knight", 2, 2, "A")
blocker = CombatCreature("Goblin", 1, 1, "B")
attacker.blocked_by.append(blocker)
blocker.blocking = attacker

sim = CombatSimulator([attacker], [blocker])
result = sim.simulate()
print(result.creatures_destroyed)
```

## Downloading sample card data

The :func:`fetch_french_vanilla_cards` utility searches Scryfall for
"French vanilla" creatures. These are creature cards whose rules text
contains only keyword abilities recognized by ``CombatCreature``. The
resulting data can be stored locally using :func:`save_cards` and later
loaded with :func:`load_cards`.

```python
from magic_combat import fetch_french_vanilla_cards, save_cards

cards = fetch_french_vanilla_cards()  # optional ``timeout`` parameter
save_cards(cards, "data/cards.json")

# By default each request will wait up to 10 seconds; adjust ``timeout`` if
# you need a different value.
```

Alternatively, a small helper script ``scripts/download_cards.py`` can be run
from the repository root to perform the download.  It accepts an optional
``--timeout`` argument matching :func:`fetch_french_vanilla_cards`:

```bash
python scripts/download_cards.py data/cards.json
# python scripts/download_cards.py --timeout 5 data/cards.json
```

## Random creature generation

Once you have downloaded card data, you can build statistics for the real
creature distribution and sample new creatures from it:

```python
from magic_combat import load_cards, compute_card_statistics, generate_random_creature

cards = load_cards("data/cards.json")
stats = compute_card_statistics(cards)
creature = generate_random_creature(stats)
print(creature)
```

## Utility functions

The :mod:`magic_combat.utils` module provides helpers for applying combat
bonuses programmatically. ``apply_attacker_blocking_bonuses`` grants bushido,
rampage and flanking bonuses to an attacker, while ``apply_blocker_bushido``
handles bushido on a blocker.

Commit message:

Add combat damage utilities and tests

README.md, after:

# Magic Combat

This project provides a small combat simulator inspired by trading card games
such as *Magic: The Gathering*.

The ``magic_combat`` package now includes fully implemented modules such as
``CombatCreature`` and ``CombatSimulator`` which handle blocking validation,
damage assignment, keyword abilities and more.

## Repository layout

```
magic_combat/                Core package containing combat code
magic_combat/creature.py     ``CombatCreature`` data model
magic_combat/damage.py       Damage assignment strategies
magic_combat/simulator.py    ``CombatSimulator`` and ``CombatResult`` classes
magic_combat/utils.py        Small utility helpers used internally
magic_combat/combat_utils.py Damage helpers for creatures and players
magic_combat/parsing.py      Parsing helpers for card data
magic_combat/random_creature.py Utilities for sampling creatures
magic_combat/blocking_ai.py  Blocking heuristics and search
magic_combat/block_utils.py  Utilities for evaluating block assignments
```

## Development

1. Install the requirements

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. Run the test suite

```bash
pytest
```

The test suite exercises many combat interactions to ensure the rules are
implemented correctly.

## Usage

```python
from magic_combat import CombatCreature, CombatSimulator

attacker = CombatCreature("Knight", 2, 2, "A")
blocker = CombatCreature("Goblin", 1, 1, "B")
attacker.blocked_by.append(blocker)
blocker.blocking = attacker

sim = CombatSimulator([attacker], [blocker])
result = sim.simulate()
print(result.creatures_destroyed)
```

## Downloading sample card data

The :func:`fetch_french_vanilla_cards` utility searches Scryfall for
"French vanilla" creatures. These are creature cards whose rules text
contains only keyword abilities recognized by ``CombatCreature``. The
resulting data can be stored locally using :func:`save_cards` and later
loaded with :func:`load_cards`.

```python
from magic_combat import fetch_french_vanilla_cards, save_cards

cards = fetch_french_vanilla_cards()  # optional ``timeout`` parameter
save_cards(cards, "data/cards.json")

# By default each request will wait up to 10 seconds; adjust ``timeout`` if
# you need a different value.
```

Alternatively, a small helper script ``scripts/download_cards.py`` can be run
from the repository root to perform the download.  It accepts an optional
``--timeout`` argument matching :func:`fetch_french_vanilla_cards`:

```bash
python scripts/download_cards.py data/cards.json
# python scripts/download_cards.py --timeout 5 data/cards.json
```

## Random creature generation

Once you have downloaded card data, you can build statistics for the real
creature distribution and sample new creatures from it:

```python
from magic_combat import load_cards, compute_card_statistics, generate_random_creature

cards = load_cards("data/cards.json")
stats = compute_card_statistics(cards)
creature = generate_random_creature(stats)
print(creature)
```

## Utility functions

The :mod:`magic_combat.utils` module provides helpers for applying combat
bonuses programmatically. ``apply_attacker_blocking_bonuses`` grants bushido,
rampage and flanking bonuses to an attacker, while ``apply_blocker_bushido``
handles bushido on a blocker.  ``magic_combat.combat_utils`` exposes
``damage_creature`` and ``damage_player`` for applying damage outside of the
``CombatSimulator`` class.
